# Subtypes estimation in single-cell multi-omics data via S-multi-SNE


# Overview

This repository contains the code and documentation for our research paper Subtypes estimation in single-cell multi-omics data via S-multi-SNE. The repository is structured into two main folders:

- **preprocessing**: Contains scripts for data preparation and cleaning.
- **analysis**: Contains code for the main analysis and results generation.

## Authors

**Theodoulos Rodosthenous**, **Vahid Shahrezaei**, **Marina Evangelou** - Imperial College London

## Abstract

Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has rapidly become an essential method in modern biology, as it allows global characterisation of transcriptomics in individual cells from different tissues, or organisms. scRNA-seq data are collected from a single individual organism and they are composed as mRNA count matrices with rows representing the cells and columns the genes. New technologies further allow multi-omics data to be obtained on the same set of single cells. 

In this paper, multi-SNE and S-multi-SNE, two multi-view dimensionality reduction and classification approaches, are adapted for visualization and classification of cellular subtypes, two important challenges in the analysis of scRNA-seq data. S-multi-SNE has been adapted for cell subtype estimation of scRNA-seq data. In a series of experiments we illustrate that it is possible to identify cell subtypes by leveraging information from individuals from the same species, from different species, and when data are generated by different sequencing technologies. In the conducted analyses, we show that S-multi-SNE consistently outperformed several other machine learning techniques and, in most comparisons, surpassed existing reference-based single-cell classification algorithms.

We further illustrate how two single-cell multi-omics datasets, scATAC-seq and scRNA-seq, can be integrated together through S-multi-SNE for improved cell subtype identification. 

## Data

The datasets used in this research are not included in this repository due to their large size. Links to download the data are provided in the manuscript. Below are the datasets used in this study:

| Dataset | Description | Link |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| Mouse single cells from lung | This dataset consists of three mouse individuals with data taken from lung tissue. The data are taken from the Mouse Cell Atlas (Han et al., 2018). | [Link](https://figshare.com/s/865e694ad06d5857db4b) |
| Human single cells from lung | This dataset consists of two human individuals with data taken from lung tissue. The data are taken from the Human Cell Landscape (Han et al., 2020) | [Link](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/HCL_DGE_Data/7235471?file=23043329) |
| Human single cells from pancreas | This dataset consists of eight human individuals with data taken from pancreas tissue sequenced through different technologies (Lab, 2019 | [Link](https://github.com/satijalab/seurat-data) |
| A549 | This dataset consists of a single mouse individual with data taken from kidney tissue (Cao et al., 2018) | [Link](https://github.com/sqjin/scAI/tree/master/data) |
| PBMC - 10xGenomics | This dataset consists of paired Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cell PBMC profiles from a single human individual, generated by the 10x Genomics Multiome ATAC + RNA kit (Hao et al., 2021) | [Link](https://atlas.fredhutch.org/nygc/multimodal-pbmc/) |
| CBMC - Seurat | This dataset consists of paired Cord Blood Mononuclear Cells (CBMC) profiles from a single human individual, generated by CITE-seq (Stoeckius et al., 2017) | [Link](https://github.com/satijalab/seurat-data) |


## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/theorod93/scSubtypes_estimation.git
cd scSubtypes_estimation


```
